Reading 2

Nic Collins is someone who inventively uses circuitry to create new forms of sound and instrumentation. One of the things that’s interesting to me is how he appreciates the tactile and performative quality of musical instruments, so he tries to input that into the circuitry models that he creates. The piece with the trombone as a controller was an intense experimentation of what you could do with hacking an instrument. I was ultimately surprised by the variety and quality of sounds that he produced and how he could improvise music with it. When I was listening to his pieces they didn’t seem to start out as something that could be inherently seen as musical, however, what was going on was him showing off the range of the equipment that he created and then he would improvise a sort of composition. I also found the exploration within his piece royal touch to be in a way inspiring. The sounds were finnicky and often times wouldn’t provide a consistent noise based on placement because the placement of the nodes would have to be very exact. Though this was the case, that piece didn’t really seem to exist for its musical quality, instead, it was an experiment in what kind of sounds he could produce with a piece of circuitry in which he wasn’t really sure which connections could do what.

Sound is very clearly an interesting way to make art. There is so much form and variation to it and it is a presence that frequently permeates our state of being. The idea that there is this constant vibration that occurs and exists within our presence that we can be generally aware of plays a role in defining our existence. Sounds also have different contexts and meanings based on how we experience it. Our minds form associations to sound and I think there is something poetic in both distortion and generation of sounds. Technology allows us to hear and experience sound in new ways. One of the things that Collins talked about was creating a new microphone that projected sound differently was akin to making a new ear. I found that poignant, trying to create new experiences that people can form connections to is something that is integral in art. These experiences that an artist can provide people through sound technology is unlike anything that has been produced before, which has previously been denounced outside the scope of modern art. As artists I think we strive to attain this level of effect and sound technology is a clear way to initiate that.
