Eric LaMothe

Recently I was exploring some of Tamiko Thiel’s work and I came across a work called “I am Sound” which she worked on with a sound artist named Christoph Reiserer. The piece was a projection on aluminum sheets where the viewer would walk up and have their face scanned. The facial scan would appear as a black and white image on the sheets. Then another scan would take the light and dark values to project a sound that changes based on the shadows that are cast on a person’s face. After reading the article about Synesthesia I couldn’t help but wonder what other values that sound could be mapped to outside of color. This piece was an interesting exploration of how imagery could be reinterpreted as an audible tone unique to the way the light values map to the individuals face.

Researching more into artists incorporating synesthetic design for their art, I found an artist named Michal Levy. She’s an artist that creates audio visualization of classical music and jazz. One of the pieces that I thought strongly connected to this theme was called “Giant Steps”. In the video she uses simple shapes but then adds motion in color to them in which they visually animate to John Coltrane’s song of the same name. What the piece ends up doing is masterfully visualizing the musical cadences within the piece and applying fitting motion to the objects that dance in a 3-D space. The strongest part was how the composition builds out into an entire setting, allowing the music to create a world. The music builds on itself all the way until the final note in which the setting is complete and the you can visualize the whole song in its entirety within the frame of the image. That’s also not to discount the amount of motion present by the different musical techniques.

The final artwork that I’ll write about is a work done by an artist named Yoon Chung Han called “Eyes”. In this work, she would scan an individual’s eye, specifically the information coded with in the iris. The iris has many characteristics that are unique to each person, and using these characteristics, she was able to map out data points so that they translated into sound waves. The data would account for the changes in the peaks at where the data would translate the visual information. She has a version of the piece that is 3D printed and then projection mapped with the eye so that it occupies a physical space. 
