I mostly saw the combination of sound and visual in concert, rave, bar, club, etc. The other time I've seen visualization of sound was when I learned Processing and Arduino. Moreover, there are some videos on Youtube that used this kind of technique which always amazed me. I didn't know any artist that does a good job on combining both visual and sound actually. Having to do this reading, I have a chance to look up some great inspiration.

The first artist who got my attention in working with both sound and visual is "Dancing color" by Fabian Oefner. In this piece, he mounted a thin plastic foil on top of a common sound speaker's membrane. He then added plenty of tiny, colorful crystals on the foil. As a result, whenever he play any sound, the vibration of the membrane caused the crystals to jump up and down creating some kind of interesting form. With each different sound and different way of organizing the crystals, he was able to capture a different form or "dance". This series got my attention from its simple idea behind, but stunning outcome. Just by looking at the photographs of these dancing crystals, I can feel the sound when it was played.

Another interesting piece I found out is actually an ad for Schwartz, an ingredient brand. This ad is so experimental that I have to mention it, "The Sound of Taste" by Grey London & Chris Cairns. At first, audience will have an overview of all the ingredients include in the video like black peppercorns, cardamom, basil leaves, cinnamon, cumin seeds, ginger, chilli, etc. Then suddenly, a bass sound with a scene of turning on the fire that leads to a cooking scene. A prosthetic arm holds a cup of sauce and pours it onto a pan. At the same time, a soft, slow piano sound start playing and a bag of green ingredient starts to explode. At the next note, another bag explodes. With every notes, each bag of ingredient explosion creates a colorful and abstract scene. There are some zoom in shot which ingredients touch each other. Without knowing that those bag are ingredients, I will only think those are color powder or something like that. It's not only pleasant to the ears, but also, eyes and tongue. The ending scene when all bags of ingredients explode is breath-taking.  

P/s: after writing this, I realize I actually know somebody who did a really good job on combining sound and visual, Yannick Jacquet. He had Tuesday night lecture and a piece exhibit at SJSU gallery a year ago.
