Sound is something I admire and grateful for being able to hear. I believe it would be a sense that I wouldn’t want to live without. It's sort of painful to know that my hearing isn’t as good as it was before but if I’m still able to make out the sound then I’ll manage. And to get on topic the sounds artists showed were really interesting in how they performed or showed their pieces. I thought of taking the pieces as sound only without visuals but it didn’t make it better. It just made it all the more confusing. I think the visuals and performance makes the pieces a lot better.

The interesting piece that I could connect and understand a bit was Samson Young’s piece. It would definitely cause some PTSD due to the similar sounds that he was creating. I’m impressed at how he was able to create sounds of gunfire and bombs[?] dropping. I believe I hear some gunshots close to my house sometimes and it sounds similar to what he was creating. If this was done on a larger scale with projection mapping or even a simple projection it would be hard to tell if he was actually creating the sounds or it was just playing through the projections. 

Cevdet Erek’s piece just reminded me of ASMR. A lot of people seem to be getting into this and content creators are trying to gear some of their videos to allow audiences to watch it while they sleep. I am not into ASMR videos but I do enjoy watching videos to put me to sleep. Usually a game video or some sort of documentary. 

Tarek Atoui’s piece was interesting as it actually had a large audience. We don’t really get to see what the audience is looking at , whether it is just him performing or something going on in the background. I could definitely see someone muting the audio of the video and playing other electronic music over it and it’ll look like he’s actually playing the song. Similar to a lot of dj’s at raves. 
