Reading 4

As the article suggests, sound art has become a space rich for exploration and has established a temporal relevance in our given era. The artists represented in the article reflect the versatility within the medium, displaying so many unique ways of interpreting sound. Samson Young has a lot of other works that I’ve seen of his that explore his aesthetic as well as the varying personifications of sound and music. The piece of him making the sound effects for the bombs I thought was powerful. Warfare and destruction have a soundtrack for it, but sound is interesting how sounds can seem more real and visceral if they play off our associations. The sounds of war that he was creating were recorded so cleanly and mimicked our perception, allowing the sound to resonate. Lawrence Abu Hamdan’s piece, Rubber Coated Steel, was interesting on a different level. The way he brought sound forensics in as a witness and his video presentation stuck with me. The sound was the identifier of the means that were used to murder to teenagers, an act that the government attempted to cover up. His art had real world implications. Humming Bird Clock was another one of his pieces that effectively reveals a surveillance method I wasn’t aware of and would imagine wasn’t something most people knew about. The fact that he was able to give people the ability to key into system in which was silently monitoring them shifts a serious power dynamic between the people and the governing system. Tessia Machado was making interesting worked that really stretched the musical quality of everyday objects and the sounds that could be made with them. I think exploring the different ways sound can be produced allows for unique genesis in which something that never was suddenly is. I think a way in which I would do that piece differently is adding a layer of meaning to the objects used. I’m not sure, but it seemed like the musical parts didn’t have an overarching thematic element. I would like to see exploration of objects that have a story and create a musical composition that reflects maybe an important personal space. Something that might be interesting is going to sites of significance and gathering objects that will become the instruments that the depict the past of that place through sound. Carsten Nicolai’s piece was so simple yet did a great job at visualizing the sound waves traveling. The way the light waves bent across the water gave motion to the sound, making it more corporeal. A way this could be expanded upon is if the neon lights were in some way reactive to the sound, feeding a color input.
