I’m mainly inspired by the three following points from this article. Firstly, the diversity use of materials ranged from glass, metal, sand, to readymade objects like toys and speakers expand the possibility of sounds and music. Those materials can become triggers, the final products, or an invitation to the interaction of a sound piece. This possibility is distinct from that within a static sculpture which usually offers the audience a sense of stay away. Through designed user-friendly material, viewers can play an important role in shaping the sound landscape and manipulating the whole piece in  Cevdet Erek’s SSS and Christine Sun Kim’s Game of Skill 2.0. 

Secondly, an extension of the hearing experiences to multisensory experiments like mental psychological investigation and tactile interaction in artist’s practices can rebuild our connection with collective memories/histories. I am moved by site-specific Susan Philipsz’s piece Lowland which guides the user to explore the public architectural space, to notice that an ordinary place may conceal historical treasures. 

Thirdly, the altered perspective or dissociation between audio and visual can trigger a conversation about reality and imagination when hearing sounds. For example, Janet Cardiff’s installation of 40-speakers of each plays a recording of a different voice singing a part of Spem in Alium gives the audience of the original choir but also questions the necessity of seeing singers when listening to a concert, as well as my self-reflection on the difference between listening Spem in Alium at home and enjoying Spem in Alium at a museum. 
I wish I have a chance to see those sound works in person!

Lawrence Abu Hamdan’s practice motivates me to think about the sound pollution of this world, from the traffic noises to the notification of mobile devices. We live in a life that most sounds serve as either alarms or reminders of dangerous, or something that cheers our moods like music and nature noises. I would like to explore the gray area, the sounds that are often ignored by human beings. How much of them exist in our modern life? Are they harmful or beneficial? 
